README.md, before:

FlatCAM BETA (c) 2019 - by Marius Stanciu
Based on FlatCAM: 
2D Computer-Aided PCB Manufacturing by (c) 2014-2016 Juan Pablo Caram
=====================================================================

FlatCAM is a program for preparing CNC jobs for making PCBs on a CNC router.
Among other things, it can take a Gerber file generated by your favorite PCB
CAD program, and create G-Code for Isolation routing.

=====================================================================

-------------------------- Installation instructions ----------------

Works with Python version 3.5 or greater and PyQt5.
More on the YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLVvP2SYRpx-AQgNlfoxw93tXUXon7G94_

You can contact me on my email address found in the app in:
Menu -> Help -> About FlatCAM -> Programmers -> Marius Stanciu

- Make sure that your OS is up-to-date
- Download sources from: https://bitbucket.org/jpcgt/flatcam/downloads/
- Unzip them on a HDD location that your user has permissions for.

1.Windows

- download the provided installer (for your OS flavor 64bit or 32bit) from:
https://bitbucket.org/jpcgt/flatcam/downloads/
- execute the installer and install the program. It is recommended to install as a Local User.

or from sources:
- download the sources from the same location
- unzip them on a safe location on your HDD that your user has permissions for
- install WinPython e.g WinPython 3.8 downloaded from here: https://sourceforge.net/projects/winpython/files/WinPython_3.8/
Use one of the versions (64bit or 32it) that are compatible with your OS. 
To save space use one of the versions that have the smaller size (they offer 2 versions: one with size of few hundred MB and one smaller with size of few tens of MB)

- add Python folder and Python\Scripts folder to your Windows Path (https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/office/developer/sharepoint-2010/ee537574(v%3Doffice.14))
- verify that the pip package can be run by opening Command Prompt(Admin) and running the command:
```
pip -V
```

- look in the requirements.txt file (found in the sources folder) and install all the dependencies using the pip package. 
The required wheels can be downloaded either from:
https://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/
or
https://pypi.org/
 
You can download all the required wheels files into a folder (e.g D:\my_folder) and install them from Command Prompt like this:

```
cd D:\my_folder
```

and for each wheel file (*.whl) run:
```
D:\my_folder\> pip install --upgrade package_from_requirements.whl
```

Run FlatCAM beta from the installation folder (e.g D:\FlatCAM_beta) in the Command Prompt with the following command:
cd D:\FlatCAM_beta
python FlatCAM.py

2.Linux

- make sure that Python 3.8 is installed on your OS and that the command: python3 -V confirm it
- verify that the pip package is installed for your Python installation (e.g 3.8) by running the command:
```
pip3 -V
``` 

If it is not installed, install it. In Ubuntu-like OS's it is done like this: 
```
sudo apt-get install python3-pip 
```
or:
```
sudo apt-get install python3.8-pip
```
- verify that the file setup_ubuntu.sh has Linux line-endings (LF) and that it is executable (chmod +x setup_ubuntu.sh)
- run the file setup_ubuntu.sh and install all the dependencies with the command:
```
./setup_ubuntu.sh
```
- if the previous command is successful and has no errors, run FlatCAM with the command: python3 FlatCAM.py

- Alternatively you can install it on Ubuntu with:
```
# Optional if depencencies are missing
make install_dependencies

# Install for the current user only (using the folder in its place)
make install

# System-wide instalation
sudo make install
```

3.MacOS

Instructions from here: https://gist.github.com/natevw/3e6fc929aff358b38c0a#gistcomment-3111878

- create a folder to hold the sources somewhere on your HDD:
mkdir FlatCAM

- unzip in this folder the sources downloaded from https://bitbucket.org/jpcgt/flatcam/downloads/
Using commands (e.g using the sources for FlatCAM beta 8.991):
cd ~/FlatCAM
wget https://bitbucket.org/jpcgt/flatcam/downloads/FlatCAM_beta_8.991_sources.zip
unzip FlatCAM_beta_8.991_sources.zip
cd FlatCAM_beta_8.991_sources

- check if Homebrew is installed:
xcode-select --install
ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"

- install dependencies:
brew install pyqt
python3 -m ensurepip
python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt

- run FlatCAM
python3 FlatCAM.py

Commit message:

Note in the original readme

README.md, after:

This is the clone of the FlatCAM Beta repository, originally hosted in the bitbucket. It contains some fixes and the 
Dockerfile and supplementary to easily run under Linux, as figuring out the working versions of the dependencies was kind of nightmare.

Trivial fixes:
- Crash on deleting the only tool
- Crash on exit, the Save-As dialogue 

Running:
Added Dockerfile, proper requirements with frozen set of the versions and the start script. Credits to 
Éttore Leandro Tognoli (ettoreleandrotognoli) on bitbucket, who figured actual requirements and posted pip-frozen.

Build with:
 docker build -t flatcam .

Run with:
 run_flatcam_docker.sh

Note, the script adds a directory $HOME/SCHEMA of the users as docker volume. Modify according your needs.

Below is the original README

====================================================================

FlatCAM BETA (c) 2019 - by Marius Stanciu
Based on FlatCAM: 
2D Computer-Aided PCB Manufacturing by (c) 2014-2016 Juan Pablo Caram
=====================================================================

FlatCAM is a program for preparing CNC jobs for making PCBs on a CNC router.
Among other things, it can take a Gerber file generated by your favorite PCB
CAD program, and create G-Code for Isolation routing.

=====================================================================

-------------------------- Installation instructions ----------------

Works with Python version 3.5 or greater and PyQt5.
More on the YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLVvP2SYRpx-AQgNlfoxw93tXUXon7G94_

You can contact me on my email address found in the app in:
Menu -> Help -> About FlatCAM -> Programmers -> Marius Stanciu

- Make sure that your OS is up-to-date
- Download sources from: https://bitbucket.org/jpcgt/flatcam/downloads/
- Unzip them on a HDD location that your user has permissions for.

1.Windows

- download the provided installer (for your OS flavor 64bit or 32bit) from:
https://bitbucket.org/jpcgt/flatcam/downloads/
- execute the installer and install the program. It is recommended to install as a Local User.

or from sources:
- download the sources from the same location
- unzip them on a safe location on your HDD that your user has permissions for
- install WinPython e.g WinPython 3.8 downloaded from here: https://sourceforge.net/projects/winpython/files/WinPython_3.8/
Use one of the versions (64bit or 32it) that are compatible with your OS. 
To save space use one of the versions that have the smaller size (they offer 2 versions: one with size of few hundred MB and one smaller with size of few tens of MB)

- add Python folder and Python\Scripts folder to your Windows Path (https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/office/developer/sharepoint-2010/ee537574(v%3Doffice.14))
- verify that the pip package can be run by opening Command Prompt(Admin) and running the command:
```
pip -V
```

- look in the requirements.txt file (found in the sources folder) and install all the dependencies using the pip package. 
The required wheels can be downloaded either from:
https://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/
or
https://pypi.org/
 
You can download all the required wheels files into a folder (e.g D:\my_folder) and install them from Command Prompt like this:

```
cd D:\my_folder
```

and for each wheel file (*.whl) run:
```
D:\my_folder\> pip install --upgrade package_from_requirements.whl
```

Run FlatCAM beta from the installation folder (e.g D:\FlatCAM_beta) in the Command Prompt with the following command:
cd D:\FlatCAM_beta
python FlatCAM.py

2.Linux

- make sure that Python 3.8 is installed on your OS and that the command: python3 -V confirm it
- verify that the pip package is installed for your Python installation (e.g 3.8) by running the command:
```
pip3 -V
``` 

If it is not installed, install it. In Ubuntu-like OS's it is done like this: 
```
sudo apt-get install python3-pip 
```
or:
```
sudo apt-get install python3.8-pip
```
- verify that the file setup_ubuntu.sh has Linux line-endings (LF) and that it is executable (chmod +x setup_ubuntu.sh)
- run the file setup_ubuntu.sh and install all the dependencies with the command:
```
./setup_ubuntu.sh
```
- if the previous command is successful and has no errors, run FlatCAM with the command: python3 FlatCAM.py

- Alternatively you can install it on Ubuntu with:
```
# Optional if depencencies are missing
make install_dependencies

# Install for the current user only (using the folder in its place)
make install

# System-wide instalation
sudo make install
```

3.MacOS

Instructions from here: https://gist.github.com/natevw/3e6fc929aff358b38c0a#gistcomment-3111878

- create a folder to hold the sources somewhere on your HDD:
mkdir FlatCAM

- unzip in this folder the sources downloaded from https://bitbucket.org/jpcgt/flatcam/downloads/
Using commands (e.g using the sources for FlatCAM beta 8.991):
cd ~/FlatCAM
wget https://bitbucket.org/jpcgt/flatcam/downloads/FlatCAM_beta_8.991_sources.zip
unzip FlatCAM_beta_8.991_sources.zip
cd FlatCAM_beta_8.991_sources

- check if Homebrew is installed:
xcode-select --install
ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"

- install dependencies:
brew install pyqt
python3 -m ensurepip
python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt

- run FlatCAM
python3 FlatCAM.py
